\ifx\master\undefined\input{settings/autocompile}\fi
\chapter{The Compact Muon Solenoid Experiment}
\label{ch:detector}
%

The Compact Muon Solenoid (CMS) Experiment is a ``general purpose'' particle
detector designed to measure collision events at the Large Hadron Collider
(LHC), a proton--proton synchrotron located at the CERN laboratory in Geneva,
Switzerland.  The design goals of the CMS experiment are~\cite{CMSExperiment},
in order of priority:
\begin{itemize}
  \item Good muon identification and momentum resolution over a wide range of
    momenta and angles, good dimuon mass resolution ($\approx 1\%$ at 100~\GeVcc),
    and the ability to determine unambiguously the charge of muons with $p <
    1~\TeVc$;
  \item Good charged-particle momentum resolution and reconstruction efficiency
    in the inner tracker. Efficient triggering and offline tagging of $\tau$'s and
    $b$--jets, requiring pixel detectors close to the interaction region;
  \item Good electromagnetic energy resolution, good diphoton and dielectron
    mass resolution ($\approx 1\%$ at 100~\GeVcc), wide geometric coverage,
    $\pi^0$ rejection, and efficient photon and lepton isolation at high
    luminosities;
  \item Good missing--transverse--energy and dijet--mass resolution, requiring
    hadron calorimeters with a large hermetic geometric coverage and with fine
    lateral segmentation.
\end{itemize}
The detector uses a hermetic design that maximizes the
solid--angle of the fiducial region to capture as much information about the
collisions as possible.  The general geometry of the detector is cylindrical.
At cutaway diagram of the detector is shown in Figure~\ref{fig:AllCMSCutaways}.
Each of the sub--detector components consists of ``barrel'' and ``endcap''
components.  As its name suggests, the detector is centered around a four Tesla
superconducting solenoid magnet.  The individual sub--detectors of CMS are
arranged in a manner that permits identification of different species of
particles.  The central (closest to interaction point) sub--detector are the
charged particle tracking systems (the ``tracker'').  The tracker is designed to
be a \emph{non--destructive} instrument, which means that ideally that the
momentum of particles are unchanged after passing through it.  Outside of the
tracker is the electromagnetic and hadronic calorimeters, which are abbreviated
ECAL and HCAL, respectively.  The calorimeter is a \emph{destructive} detector,
and is designed such that visible incident particles are completely absorbed.
The outer layers of CMS are designed to measure muons, the
one\footnote{Neutrinos of course fulfill this requirement as well, but are so
weakly interacting that they are effectively invisible.} species of particle
that is immune to the effects of the calorimeter.  The arrangement of
destructive and non--destructive sub--detectors facilitates the identification
of different types of particles.  This concept is illustrated in
Figure~\ref{fig:SubdetectorID}.
\begin{figure}
  \centering
  %\subfigure[]{\includegraphics[width=0.97\textwidth]{detector_chapter/figures/cms_complete_labelled.pdf}
  \subfigure[]{\includegraphics[width=0.97\textwidth]{detector_chapter/figures/cms_complete_labelled.png}
  \label{fig:CMSDetector}
  }
  \subfigure[]{\includegraphics[width=0.97\textwidth]{detector_chapter/figures/CMS_Slice.png}
  \label{fig:SubdetectorID}
  }
  \caption[Schematic drawings of the CMS
  detector]{Figure~\subref{fig:CMSDetector}, top, shows a schematic drawing of the CMS
  detector.  The individual sub--detectors are labeled.  Two humans are shown in
  the foreground for scale. Figure~\subref{fig:SubdetectorID} shows a radial
  cross section of the detector and demonstrates how
  the (non--)destructiveness of different sub--detectors facilitates particle
  identification.} 
  \label{fig:AllCMSCutaways}
\end{figure}
In this chapter we give an brief overview of the LHC machine, and then describe
the individual sub--detector systems of CMS. 

\section{The Large Hadron Collider}
The Large Hadron Collider is a proton--proton synchrotron, with a design
collision energy of 14~\TeV.  At the time of this writing (and for the
foreseeable future), the LHC is the world's largest and highest energy particle
accelerator. A synchrotron is a machine that accelerates beams of charged
particles by using magnets to steer them in a circle through radio--frequency
resonating cavities which accelerate the particles. As the LHC is a collider,
there are two beams that are accelerated in opposite directions.  The maximum
beam energy of a synchrotron is determined by its radius and the maximum
strength of the magnetic fields used to bend the path of the beam.  The dipole
magnets used by the LHC to steer the particles are superconducting
niobium--titanium.  To maintain them in a superconducting state, they are cooled
using superfluid liquid helium to 1.9~Kelvin.  To store the beam at the
injection energy of 450~\GeV, the magnetic dipole fields must be maintained at
$1/2$~Tesla.  As the energy of each beam energy is increased to its (design)
maximum of 7~\TeV, the dipole fields are ramped to a maximum field of over 8
Tesla.
\section{Solenoid Magnet}
\label{sec:Magnet}
The four Tesla field of the CMS solenoid magnet is a critical factor in ability
of CMS to precisely measure collisions at the LHC\@. The momentum of charged
particles is measured in the detector by examining the curvature of the
particles path as it travels through the magnetic field.  The radius of
curvature $r$ of a charged particle in a magnetic field is given by
\begin{equation}
  r = \frac{p_\perp}{|q| B},
  \label{eq:LarmorRadius}
\end{equation}
where $q$ is the charge of the particle, $B$ is the magnetic field, and
$p_\perp$ is the component of the particle's relativistic momentum perpendicular
to the direction of the magnetic field.  From Equation~\ref{eq:LarmorRadius}, it
is evident that the ability to measure high momentum charged particles (a
critical goal of CMS) requires a high magnetic field.  Even at very high
particle energies where the resolution becomes poor, the strength of the
magnetic field is still very important for identifying the bending direction of
the particle; the direction corresponds to the particle's electric charge.
Furthermore, the homogeneity of the magnetic field is important to minimize
systematic errors in the measurement of tracks.

The CMS solenoid is extremely large.  The radial bore of the magnet is
6.3~meters; the magnet is 12.5~meters in length and weighs 220~tons.  The large
bore of the magnet allows the tracker and calorimeter systems to be located
inside the solenoid.  The internal windings of solenoid is arranged in four
layers to increase the total field strength and are cooled by liquid helium to
a temperature of 4.5 Kelvin.  The windings are magnetically
coupled to the support superstructure.  This coupling allows the magnetic to
heat uniformly during a ``quench\footnote{A quench event occurs when some part
of the magnet is suddenly no longer in a superconducting state.  The coil
becomes resistive and the large current in the magnet creates large amounts of
heat.}'' event, reducing localized stresses.  The
nominal current at full field of the solenoid is 19.14~kA.  The solenoid itself
is surrounded by an iron return yoke with a total mass of 10,000~tons.  The
return yoke surrounding the solenoid minimizes the fringing field.  The muon
detector system is interspersed inside the yoke, and takes advantage of the
field in the yoke to measure the momentum and charge of muons.
%
\section{Charged Particle Tracking Systems}
\label{sec:Tracker}

The charged particle tracking system measures the trajectories of charged
particles emerging from the event.  The tracker measures the trajectory of a
charged particle by measuring ``hits'' along the trajectory.  Each hit
corresponds to the global position of the trajectory on a given surface.  The
trajectory can then be reconstructed by a helix to the points.  The tracker is
designed to have a resolution that permits the reconstruction of ``secondary
vertices'' in $b$--quark and $\tau$ lepton decays.  To accomplish this, there
are two types of tracking detectors in CMS\@.  The ``pixel detector''composes
the inner layers (three in the barrel, two in the endcaps).  The pixel detector
is  situated as close as possible (4.4~\cm) to the interaction point and has a
very high resolution. Outside of the pixel detector is the silicon strip
tracker, with ten layers in the barrel and 12 layers in the endcaps.  A
secondary vertex occurs when a particle is semi--stable, traveling some
non--negligible distance in the detector, but decaying before the first layer of
the tracking system.  The pixel and strip tracking detectors have a fiducial
region which extends to a pseudorapidity of approximately $|\eta| \approx 2.5$.

Both the pixel and strip trackers are silicon based.  The principle of operation
is similar to that of a charged--coupled discharge (CCD) \fixme{right acronym}
in a modern digital camera.  The sensitive portion of the detector is a silicon
chip that is arranged with diode junctions formed by a $p$--doped layer and an
$n$--doped layer\footnote{The pixel detector actually uses a more complicated
multi--layered scheme to improve radiation hardness.  For details, see
Section~3.2.2 of~\cite{CMSExperiment}.}.  Each $p-n$ junction is electrically
isolated from adjacent layers. The size of each junction region
determines\footnote{Additionally, the size of the sensitive area needs to be
small enough such that the hit occupancy during a typically LHC event is not too
large, which would cause overlaps and spoil the ability to reconstruct tracks.
The expected occupancy depends on the distance $r^2$ from the interaction.  The
expected occupancy in the pixel detector for LHC collisions is $10^{-4}$.} the
spatial resolution of the sensor.  In the pixel detector, each sensor region
``pixel'' is $100 \times 150 \micron^2$.  In the strip tracker, The rear side of
the chip is mounted to read--out electronics.  During operation, a high--voltage
reverse bias is applied to each $p-n$ junction to achieve full depletion.  When
a charged particle passes through the detector, the diode--junction breaks down
and the readout system registers the hit.

The tracking system has been specifically designed for the high radiation
environment around the interaction point.  The detector is cooled to -27\celsius
during operation to minimize damage. Radiation exposure produced in LHC
collisions can change behavior of the tracking detector in three ways.  Over
time, radiation can induce positive holes in oxide layers fond in the read--out
electrons which increase the signal--to--noise ratio.  In the sensor mass
itself, radiation damage changes the doping from $n$ to $p$ over time.  The
required voltage to deplete the sensor will thus increase over time.  The
readout electronics, bias voltage supplies, and cooling systems are designed to
scale with the radiation damage and maintain a signal--to--noise ration of 10:1
or greater for 10 years of LHC operation.  The final radiation effect is not an
integrating effect.  A ``single event upset'' is transient effect where an
ionizing charged particle passes through the readout electronics and changes the
state of the digital circuitry.  

In the ideal case, the tracker would be a non--destructive instrument.  However,
charged particles can interact with the mass of the tracker (and its support
infrastructure).  These interactions limit the resolution of the tracker.  The
amount of matter in the tracker is referred to as the ``material budget''.  The
material budget of the CMS tracker depends heavily on the pseudorapidity $\eta$
and is illustrated in Figure~\ref{fig:TrackerMaterialBudget}.
\begin{figure}
  \centering
  \includegraphics[]{detector_chapter/figures/tracker_material_budget_cleaned.pdf}
  \caption[Material budget of the CMS tracker]{Material budget of the CMS
  tracker in units of radiation lengths $X_0$.  The material budget is broken down
  into the contributions from the different components of the tracker.  The
  amount of material is largest in the ``transition region'' between the barrel
  and endcap.  } \label{fig:TrackerMaterialBudget}
\end{figure}
The relatively large material budget of the CMS tracker has two effects: charged
particles can ``multiple scattering,'' interacting with material in the
tracker.  This can cause ``kinks'' in the reconstructed track.   Hadronic
particles (charged and neutral) can undergo ``nuclear interactions,'' which are
a hard collisions between the incident particle and the tracker material. This
typically produces a spray of hadrons from the point of interaction.  Finally,
the material budget can cause ``photon conversions.''  A photon conversion
occurs when a photon (which typically does not interact with the tracker)
converts into an electron--positron pair while passing through matter in the
tracker.  

The expected (from simulation) impact parameter and transverse momentum
resolution of the tracker is shown in Figure~\ref{fig:ExpectedTrackerRes}.  The
momentum scale of the tracker has been measured~\cite{CMS-PAS-TRK-10-004} in
7~\TeV 2010 CMS data using $\JPsi \to \MM$ decays and is found to agree within
5\% with the prediction from simulation.  The impact parameter and vertex
resolutions have also been measured~\cite{CMS-PAS-TRK-10-005} in data and found
to be in excellent agreement with the simulation.
\begin{figure}
  \centering
  \includegraphics[width=0.97\textwidth]{detector_chapter/figures/predicted_momentum_resolution.pdf}
  \caption[Momentum and impact parameter resolutions of CMS tracker]{Expected
  resolutions of reconstructed transverse momentum~(left), transverse impact
  parameter~(center), and longitudinal impact parameter~(right) versus absolute
  pseudorapidity $|\eta|$. The resolution is shown for three different cases of
  particle \pt, 1~\GeVc~(black), 10~\GeVc~(blue), and 100~\GeVc~(red).}
  \label{fig:ExpectedTrackerRes}
\end{figure}

\section{Electromagnetic Calorimeter}
The electromagnetic calorimeter (ECAL) of CMS is designed to measure the energy
of particles which interact electromagnetically with high
precision.\footnote{One of the design goals of the CMS experiment is to be able
to conduct a search for Standard Higgs bosons decaying to pairs of photons The
branching fraction to photons is illustrated in Figure~\ref{fig:SMHiggsBR}.}.
The ECAL is a \emph{scintillation} detector, and functions by counting the
number of photons produced in an electromagnetic shower inside a crystal.  Upon
entering the crystal, a charged particle or photon will interact
electromagnetically with the crystal, producing a shower of electrons and
photons. The shower will expand until it consists entirely of photons.  The
crystal is optically clear, so these photons travel to the rear face of the
crystal where they are then counted by a photomultiplier.  The number of
detected photons can then be related to the energy that was deposited in the
crystal.  At 18\celsius, about 4.5 photoelectrons will be produced
per~\mega\electronvolt~of deposited energy.  The ECAL has excellent solid angle
coverage, extending to a pseudorapidity of $|\eta| = 3.0$.

The ECAL uses lead tungstate (PbWO$_4$) crystals as the scintillation medium.
The crystals have a very large density, which allows the calorimeter to be
relatively compact.  To be able to correctly measure the energy of electrons and
photons, an incident photon or electron must be completely stopped by
interactions with the calorimeter.  The quantities that determine if an electron
or photon will be completely contained is the total depth of the crystal, the
crystal density, and the radiation length property $X_0$ of the crystal.  The
radiation length $X_0$ is defined as the mean distance (normalized to material
density) after which an electron will have lost $(1-\frac{1}{e})$ of its energy.
The PbWO$_4$ crystals of the CMS ECAL have a density of
8.28~\gram\per\square{\centi\meter} and a depth of 230~\mm.  A single crystal
thus has a total radiation length of 25.8 $X_0$, and will capture on average
99.9993\% of the energy of an incident electron.  The front face of the crystal
is $22\mm \times 22\mm$, which corresponds to an $\eta-\phi$ area of $0.00174
\times 0.00174$.  The Moli\`{e}re radius of a material is the average radial
profile size of an electromagnetic shower, and for PbWO$_4$ is 2.2~\centi\meter.
The fact that the Moli\`{e}re radius is larger than the size of the individual
crystals improves the spatial resolution of the measurement.  As the shower is
shared between multiple crystals, the relative amounts deposited in each crystal
allows the true impact point to be determined with a resolution smaller than the
individual crystal size.

The transparency of the CMS ECAL crystals change as they are exposed to
radiation.  However, at the working temperature of the ECAL (18\celsius), the
crystal transparency will naturally return to its nominal value.  The
transparency of the crystals thus decreases during the course of a run of
collisions, then increases during the following period collision--less period.
The changing transparency conditions need to be continuously monitored and
corrected for to ensure a stable detector response.  The transparency of the
crystals are measured continuously using two lasers. One laser has wavelength
$\lambda = 400~\nano\meter$ which corresponds to the color of light produced in
the scintillations and is sensitive to changes in transparency.  The other laser
is in the near--infrared and is used to monitor the overall stability of the
crystal.  The lasers synchronized to pulse between LHC bunch trains so the
transparency can be continuously monitored while collisions are occuring.

The energy resolution of the ECAL is given by
\begin{equation}
  \left(\frac{\sigma}{E}\right)^2 = \left(\frac{S}{\sqrt E}\right)^2 + 
  \left(\frac{N}{E}\right)^2 + C^2,
  \label{eq:ECALResolutionFormula}
\end{equation}
where $S$ is a stochastic noise term (due to photon counting statistics), $N$ is
a noise term, and $C$ is a constant term.  The parameters of
Equation~\ref{eq:ECALResolutionFormula} have been measured at an electron
test--beam (see Figure~\ref{fig:ECALResolution}).  The energy resolution is
better than 1\% for electron energies greater than 20~\GeV.  
\begin{figure}
  \centering
  \includegraphics[width=0.6\textwidth]{detector_chapter/figures/ECAL_Energy_resolution.pdf}
  \caption[Energy resolution of the CMS ECAL]{Energy resolution (in~\%) of the
  CMS ECAL measured at an electron test beam.  The resolution depends on the
  incident energy of the electron.  The points are fitted to function with the
  form given in Equation~\ref{ed:ECALResolutionFormula}.  The fitted parameters
  are given in the legend.}
  \label{fig:ECALResolution}
\end{figure}

\section{Hadronic Calorimeter}
\label{sec:HCAL} The hadronic calorimeter (HCAL) surrounds the CMS ECAL and is
located within the coil of the CMS solenoid magnet.  To ensure incident
particles are completely contained within the calorimeter volume, in the barrel
region the HCAL employs a ``tail--catcher'', an extra layer of calorimetry
outside of the magnet. The hadronic calorimeter measures the energy of charged
and neutral hadronic particles.  The HCAL is a \emph{sampling} calorimeter.
Layers of plastic scintillating tiles are interspersed between brass absorber
plates.  An incident hadron produces a hadronic shower as it passes through the
absorber.  The particles in the shower produce light as they pass through the
scintillating tiles.  Measuring the light produced in each layer of tile allows
the reconstruction of the radial profile of the shower which can be related to
the deposited energy.  The response of the scintillator tiles are calibrated
using a radioactive source, either Cs$^{137}$ or Co$^{60}$.  Small stainless
tubes permit the radioactive sources to be moved into the center of the tile
during calibration.  The granularity of the HCAL is $0.087 \times 0.087$ and
$0.17 \times 0.17$ in $\eta-\phi$ in the barrel ($|\eta| < 1.6$) and endcap
($|eta| > 1.6$), respectively.

The outer HCAL (HO), or ``tail catcher'' is designed to capture showers which
begin late in the ECAL or HCAL and ensure they do not create spurious signals in
the muon system (``punch through'').  The HO is installed outside of the solenoid
magnet in the first layer between the first to layers of the iron return yoke.
The total depth of the HCAL, including the HO is then 11.8 interaction lengths.

The HCAL includes a specially designed forward calorimeter (HF).  The design of
the forward calorimeter is constrained by the extreme amount of radiation it is
exposed to, particularly at the highest rapidities.  The active material of the
HF are quartz fibers.  The fibers are installed inside grooves inside of a steel
absorber.  Charged particles created in showers in the absorber create light in
the fibers, provided they have energy greater than the with energy greater than
the Cherenkov threshold.  As Cherenkov light is created by the passage of
charged particles through matter, the HF design is not sensitive to neutrons
emitted by radionucleids that may be created in the absorber material durin
operation.  The fibers are grouped into two sets: one set of fibers are
installed over the full depth of the detector, the other only cover half the
depth.  A crude form of particle identification is possible, as showers created
by electrons and photons will deposit the majority of the energy in the front of
the detector.

\section{Muon System}
The ability to detect and measure muons is one of the most valuable tools an
experimentalist has at at hadron collider experiment.  Muons have particular
properties that cause them to leave extremely signatures in the detectors.
\begin{itemize}
  \item Muons are stable particles, for the typical energies and distances
    considered at a collider.
  \item Muons have non--zero charge, so their trajectories can be measured.
  \item Muons are heavy enough that they are ``minimum ionizing particles,'' in
    that they lose much less energy as they pass through material.
\end{itemize}
The approach to detecting muons is to build the detector to a thickness that
typical particles (electrons, photons, hadrons) will not penetrate the outermost
calorimeter.  Any charged particle that is detected outside of this region can
be identified as a muon.  At CMS, the muon detection systems are built into the
magnet return yoke outside of the CMS calorimeters and magnet, giving them
excellent protection (illustrated in Figure~\ref{fig:PunchThroughProtectin}) 
\begin{figure}
  \centering
  \subfigure[]{\includegraphics[width=0.45\textwidth]{detector_chapter/figures/interaction_lengths_before_muon.pdf}
  \label{fig:PunchThroughProtectin} }
  \subfigure[]{\includegraphics[width=0.45\textwidth]{detector_chapter/figures/global_muon_reco_eff.pdf}
  \label{fig:GlobalMuonRecoEffJINST} } \label{fig:DetectorChapterMuonShit}
  \caption[Muon system material budget and identification efficiency]{The left
  figure, \subref{fig:PunchThroughProtectin}, illustrates the number of
  interaction lengths versus pseudorapidity $\eta$ of material that must be
  traversed before reaching the different layers of the muon system.  On the
  right, \subref{fig:GlobalMuonRecoEffJINST} shows the efficiency versus $\eta$
  to reconstruct a ``global'' muon for different transverse momenta.}
\end{figure}
against hadronic ``punch--through.''  The purity of particles that reach the
muon system make it especially effective as a ``trigger'' of interesting
physics. The CMS muon system has the feature that it additionally can trigger on
the transverse momenta of muons. The CMS muon system is composed of three types
of detectors: drift tubes (DT), resistive plate chambers (RPC), and cathode
strip chambers (CSC).  

A drift tube detector is of a tube filled with a mixture of argon~(85\%) and
carbon dioxide~(15\%) gas with a positively charged ($V = +3.6~\kilo\volt$) wire
running through the middle of the tube.  When a charged particle passes through
the tube, it ionizes some gas.  The free electrons are then drawn to the
positively charged wire inside the tube, creating a signal when reach it. The
speed of the detector is limited by the ``drift time,'' the maximum amount of
time it may take for an electron to reach sensor wire.   The precision of the
spatial measurement can be increased by recording the time at which each wire
records a signal and correlating the measurements across multiple tubes. The
time resolution of the CMS DTs is on the order of a few nanoseconds, allowing
the DT to provide a trigger on a given proton bunch crossing.  The tubes in
adjacent layers are offset by one half tube width to take advantage of this
effect and ensure there are no gaps in the fiducial region.  In CMS, the
smallest unit of the DT system is the superlayer, which consists of four layers
of tubes.  A DT chamber consists of three or two superlayers.  The tubes in the
two superlayers farthest from the beam are oriented parallel to the beam and
measured the bending of the muons in the magnetic field.  The inner superlayer
is oriented orthogonally to the beam and measures the longitudinal position of
incident muons.  There are four muon ``stations'' in the barrel which contain DT
chambers.  The stations correspond to available areas in the magnetic return
yoke.  In the barrel, the muon momentum resolution of the DTs is better than
95\%.

Cathode strip chambers (CSCs) are used in the endcap muon system, providing
coverage in the pseudorapidity range $0.9 < |\eta| < 2.4$.  A cathode strip
chamber consists of a chamber filled with inert gas that with a number of
internal wires held at a high voltage.   A number of cathode strips are
installed perpendicular\footnote{The wires are actually placed at an angle to
the perpendicular to compensate for a shifting effect caused by the magnetic
field Lorentz force.} induced to the wires on the walls of the chamber.  When a
muon passes through the CSC, it creates ionizes some of the gas.  The high
voltage on a nearby wire causes this ionized gas to break down, forming a
conductive passage in the gas and an ``avalanche'' current between the wire and
a number of the cathode strips.  The spatial position of the hit in two
dimensions is found taking one coordinate from the wire and the other coordinate
from the signal average of the cathode strips.

The CSCs in the CMS endcap are positioned such that a muon in the pseudorapidity
range $1.2 < |\eta| < 2.4$ will cross three for four CSC detectors.  The
geometry of the CSC strips and wires is designed to provided a spatial $r-\phi$
resolution of 2~\milli\meter at the L1~trigger level and a final offline
reconstruction resolution of 75~\micro\meter for the first layer and
150~\micro\meter for outer layers.  The RMS of the response time for a CSC layer
is about 11~\nano\second, which is too long to correctly associate a signal in
the CSCs to an LHC bunch crossing (25~\nano\second) with high efficiency.  By
grouping the layers into chambers, and taking the shortest response, the correct
bunch crossing can be identified with \mbox{98--99\%} efficiency.

The Resistive Plate Chamber (RPC) muon detectors ensure that the muon system can
be used as a fast, first level trigger.  The RPC detector consists of two gaps
filled with gas (up and down) with a common set of strips between the two gaps.
The strips are oriented parallel to the beam line to permit measurement of the
transverse momentum of the muons.

\section{Trigger System}

At the LHC, proton bunches crossings (collisions) occur every 25~\nano\second.
This corresponds to an interaction of 40~\mega\hertz.  At this high rate, and
with the huge number of channels in the CMS detector, the front--end bandwith
readout from the detector is over 1~\peta b\per\second.  Due to bandwidth and
storage requirements, the rate at which events are permanently recorded must be
reduced by more than a factor of a million. This reduction is achieved by CMS
trigger system.  As only a fraction of the total events can be stored, and the
rate of diffractive and common QCD multi--jet production is many orders of
magnitude larger than ``interesting'' new physics (see
Figure~\ref{fig:HadronColliderCrossSections}).  The trigger must therefore be
designed to select ``interesting'' events.  A typical requirement applied at the
trigger level might be the presence of a high--\pt muon, an isolated ECAL
deposit, or a large deposit of energy in the event.

The CMS trigger consists of two stages: a fast Level--1 (L1) trigger and a
High--Level Trigger (HLT).  The L1 trigger system is built on custom, typically
re--programmable electronics and interfaces directly to the detector subsystems.
The L1 trigger has access to information from the muon and calorimeter systems.
The L1 does not have access to the full granularity of the muon system and
calorimeters but must make the decision based on coarse segments.  The design
acceptance rate of the L1 trigger is 100~\kilo\hertz.  The trigger typically
operates at a nominal rate of 30~\kilo\hertz.  The maximum latency of the L1 is
3.2~\micro\second, requiring that the output from detector electronics be passed
through memory pipelines to ensure that no bunch crossings go unanalyzed.  The
High--Level trigger runs on a farm of about 1000 commercial compute nodes and
processes events that pass that are accepted by the L1 trigger.  A High--Level
trigger decision (``path'') has the ability to reconstruct tracks and do a full
regional unpacking of the recorded hits in a regions of the calorimeter.  Each
HLT path has a strict rate budget, as the total rate of the HLT is required to
be less than 100~\hertz.  The triggers used at CMS change as the conditions
change.  To limit the total rate to 100~\hertz as the luminosity increases,
trigger paths must either increase their thresholds, or apply a ``prescale.''
When a prescale is applied, a fraction of events passing the trigger are thrown
away randomly.

The CMS trigger is a deep subject and a complete description is beyond the scope
of this thesis.  A detailed description can be found in~\ref{CMS-PTDRI}. The
triggers used in the analysis presented in this thesis will be briefly
described.  Two types of trigger selections were applied to the 2010 datasets
used in this analysis.  During the initial period of low luminosity running,
single muon triggers were used.  As the luminosity increased, the \pt threshold
of the trigger was increased.  In some cases, an ``isolated muon'' HLT trigger
was required, in which a veto was applied on muons with associated energy
deposits in the calorimeter.  In the final period of data taking, two
``cross--triggers'' were used.  These required the presence of both a muon and a
hadronic tau decay in the event.  The triggers used in this analysis in the
different 2010 run periods are enumerated in Table~\ref{tab:AHtoMuTauTriggers}.

The muon component of all the triggers used in this analysis is based on the
``L1 seed trigger'' BLAH\fixme{what is it?}.  The L1 muon trigger decision is
determined by the Global Muon Trigger (GMT), which combines information from the DT,
CSC, and RPC sub--detectors, and is able to trigger muons up to a pseudorapidity
of $|\eta| < 2.1$.  Each sub--detector has a ``local trigger,'' which can
reconstruct tracks in the muon  system.  For the drift tubes, the Bunch Track
Identifiers (BTI), a custom integrated circuit, searches for aligned hits in the
associated DT chamber.  The CSCs and RPCs employ similar strategies to detect
local muon tracks.  The sub--detectors send the GMT the charge, \pt,
$\eta$, $\phi$, and a quality code of up to four local muons.  The 
measurements from the sub--detectors are combined and a final decision is made
by the GMT.

\section{Particle Flow Reconstruction Algorithm}
\section{DAQ}

\ifx\master\undefined\input{settings/autocompile}\fi
